# Open files

## Open a file from a local file system

One of the easiest ways to open a file is to simply drag-and-drop it from a file system. After you start dragging, there
is a message that you can drop it here, and just drop it. In a second the file is opened and available in the platform.

Among many data ingestion steps available within the platform, opening a file is unique in a sense that it is the only
one which cannot be automated. This is because the browser does not have access to a local computer's file system. This
cannot be easily recorded and reproduced. All the other steps are fully reproducible.

## Open a file from a file share

Additionally files could be opened in a different manner. There is a whole section for data access on top of the left
bar with a "Folder" üìÅ icon. After clicking on it, different options may be explored. It starts with files living in a
file system that is accessible from a server. When one of these folders is open, what is happening behind the scenes is
that Datagrok which runs in your browser is talking to the server which is installed on Amazon (or in your private
cloud, if you are working with your company's instance of Datagrok). This server has access to a number of folders that
are shared.

In order to add a share, click the "New File Share", then we can connect to multiple types of file storages, such as
Dropbox, Google Cloud, S3 and others. Then, depending on the storage type you are asked to enter login credentials. Once
everything is entered, the connection will be created.

The platform allows us to explore the file system just like you would do regularly with your file system browser. There
is a hierarchical tree of directories. The files could be dragged and dropped from your desktop to the corresponding
server locations. You can right-click and see available actions. It's a file management platform as well which you can
control your file system with.

It is all covered with a system of priviledges. A connection could be shared to multiple individuals or multiple groups
with appropriate set of priveledges.

The way the browser is structured is that on top it has a list of files and folders in it, and then there is also a
preview of the current folder. By default it shows us what takes the most space, using tree map which is area-coded by
the file size. As we click on the file, the content gets shown interactively.

To bring the file to the platform, you would either double-click the file, or right-click and select `Open`. This
particular action of opening a file, as opposed to the action of opening a file from a local file system with a
drag-and-drop, is replayable. Behind the scenes, in [Console]() we can find that the action was recorded with a
name `OpenServerFile` and a path to it. A path is qualified with a namespace. What is great about it is that it could be
replayed at any time as part of some other script.

## Import file from text

...